I asked CoPilot as AIs still do not draw this perfectly: I have known this projection for some 20 years, but lately made it really consistent, and now want to use it in automates, from now on; the following task I tried to make *maximally trivial*:

Sorry, two triangles is rhomb - four is square.

Please follow a simpler algorithm:
- Triangulate the sphere so that there are four times more triangles than squares are needed - 0D 1*1 (1 square); 1D 2*2; 2D 4*4; 3D 16*16 - dimensionality marks precision as power of 2, not dimension of the object.
- Triangulation depth can be selected.
- Draw just one black-white square field.
- To create squares: choose random point which connects corners of triangles. Count all triangles which touch it. You got one perfect square and it's *exactly four triangles and definitely so*. Now: at edges of this square, and corners, find it's neighgbours: you can travel edges and for each edge of a square, if the square at that way is not registered yet, take the edge-touching triangle, it's pointing at opposite side of the selected edge - take this opposite corner, and select all 4 triangles into a square.
  - Turn it to square field: now as you have all squares, choose one square as top-left square; from one side, count to four squares which follow in order, each next touching the same side of previous one; this is the first row: now, each cell which you selected, count with 90-degree edge compared to the initial edge to get this row, and naturally get a chessboard shape, n*n square of perfect squares.

Is this simple? Can you follow every step?

---

To draw this ball, I have to explain Lane Geometry to CoPilot: how it linearizes exponent-like behaviour of ball:
- https://github.com/tambetvali/LaeLane - imagine, instead of collapsing to infinity, it collapses to corners of square projection.
  - Laegna 1/8 connections between linexp relations can be used.

Well I have well slept now and I found this in Lane geometry:
- Parallel lin and exp axis form Laegna X and Y, or T and R: same number has two dimensions, one is *unitary exponential growth*, other is *linear growth*. For example, if both axes have discrete values 1 to 8, very normal to me to divide things to 8 or 4, or even 2 as in binary (using all binary tricks in my math base-4 system easily, in two main - dimensional - and one diagonal - identity - axis, latter used especially for dimensionality reduction by 2 - 1 octave down, dimensionality is 2 times smaller for every dimension, 2-dimensional thing has naturally 4-fold octaves because 2*2=4). Thus, with such X and Y typed as integer 1..8 (1 means 0..1, 2 means 1..2, etc., 8 means 7..8), basically 3-bit integer laegna 3-digit base-2 (laegna-like OOO, OOA, OAO, OAA, AOO, AOA, AAO, AAA - 8 items) or 1-digit base-8 (decimal-like 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8): each time, because zero is omit and each digit count restarts counting, negative counts downwards -8 (laegna)<=-1 (decimal); -1 (laegna)<=-8 (decimal), -4<=-5 etc. This, because as below, so above: as Hermeticism, Laegna never rotates angles for the same direction twice, but rotates only the thoughts like a wheel rather than binary, two-point opposition with it's two-point metaphor. Here, full number = X * 8 + Y (weights: X:8, Y:1) - X (bias: starting from 1, indexed continuation - do not start counting from 9: index positions where X=Y, which reasons -X, because Y is the low-precision member X does not provide, as it's the exponent dimension); this is weak AI-parallel.
- Now, consider this:
  - Ball, starting from center, expands linearly: positional geometry holds to the center, a basic square or linear geometry. At center, geometry breaks as in Hilbert's external angles, drawn towards their external extreme at other end of ball - in Laegna this coordinate is "V", while center coordinate is "U", moreover by several-letter pole coordinates (basic north and south point), it's described *how large square identifies this point*. This exists even at spireason.neocities.org/#sheep - altough it normalizes all number systems to same boundaries, while *interesting boundaries are not the same*, this was the exact need for simplest counting: not to show same letters in different meanings to extreme, but to make sure they can do things like "here, unsigned number has U at where sheep counter has W", because the exact simple number boundary positions are all counted, associated with signed and unsigned number - the single digitwise difference shown where same digits relate to different decimal numbers by their values, altough both R and octaves are lost, as well as binary log-neutrality: laegna discrete number system can appear like irrationals, where octaves and boundaries yield surreals and outward collapse of decimal system happens somewhere around 10*10=100 for 1-digit number, where laegna 4*4=16 and externalized symmetries of 1, 2, 4 can all be counted: I cannot count 100, cannot look at it and think of all symmetries but for example, 4*4 still yields all header or all titles can be an object (4+-1 for low level operations, 7+-2 if mind tricks are operation - what human mind can conceive).
- Infinity: after 1, 2, 4 unit symmetries, each by different exponent collapses in infinity, it's measureable coordinates: it can be measured on square, if this dimensional collapse happens on square, but it's perfectly measureable on ball so precise math on ball is critical in Laegna Math.
- Lane math shows how two-band base-4 digit is used in Laegna, to have linear coordinate for exponent growth.
- At each point, space grows: linearly in terms of local 8 values, exponentially in terms of how global 8 values show, and *we use points where both are equal as our end measure we use for graphics-interlace, or even subpixel values*.
- Square collapses faster: our described square collapses at each edge, and from 90 degrees center from pole to pole, at equator: 1/2 value vs. equator itself, which has 1/4 values of same size. Look clearly, and squares have base values: but exponent factor on other axe kind of *flips* at center: exactly at equator, instead of being symmetric to close at one pole, it's symmetric to close on another. On square, where one half ball, centered at pole, is square rotated 45 degrees, and each edge connects to 1/4 same way rotated square, after rotation cut horizontally and vertically through zero (X=0, Y=0). This is perfect square, but not aligned to square coordinates.
- On ball, we draw distances: we are interested in those points X=Y, where linear and exponent function are sub-point symmetrics, and this symmetry is repeated octave-wise to infinity.
- We do not align to infinity, but the square which has rhomb-like illusion which appears from 45-degrees rotated square, in angle typically used for rhombs but this rhomb is exception: sides equal, corner angles equal, 1/4. Distance function we apply: diagonals equal verticals and parallels. This distance function does not exist directly and eucleidically, but it exists inside: system where exponent and linear are linearized into this exact precision cut and base-4 hologram number system polarization: this is, 0 is removed, E=base-4 10, EE=base-4 100, EEE=base-4 1000, which makes it shape-symmetric to octaves, multiplication and division, value-symmetric to values (to repeat, ideal self-circularity allowed in Laegna definitions because it's math is taú math - taú-abstract ponegation in laegna language, and this is rather first-order logecs where math symmetry, is repeated like a wave shape, and space is non-linearized so that it shapes to it's own partial size: application is done in non-linear space, then linearized: something like this, we do do with the ball because it's not rendering properly), addition and subtraction. If we keep this exponential growth separate from linear, then we do last thing: the coordinates on south which are linear, collapse to exponent-symmetry where infinity is projected to north and unit (=1) to equator, and from north, linear is similarly projected to exponent on south. 4*4 grid can now: perfectly mix them. If each cell has 4*4 internal dimension, the exponent vector where unit=2 is formalized in 2D: for each digit, there are two lines R and T, or Y and X: first line R has exponentialized coordinates for both D, second line has linear coordinates: digitwise, inner digit has four values and coordinates on linear axe, and it keeps local symmetries locally; outer digit has four values and it's symmetric to hologram head: it counts in linearized exponent.
- Digit symmetries: for such exponent, one can see that as boundary value grows, the exponent counts exponentially at each digit count: digit count R shows exponentiation of base-4, growing in number system easily. As one draws linear line from center to pole now, one goes with equal speed on exponent and linear axe, and exponent axe as it collapses on ball to other pole and it's point: equally, this single collapse point in symmetric square projection, even in higher space, needs to collapse at every symmetry: in every four directions on diagonals, if south pole is center, north pole is *every corner*, which you can see if you just swap the south and north pole - the 45-degrees rotated square at center will be cut vertically and diagonally through zero as well, and each quarter is moved in opposite direction of where it is from zero, so that each zero touches one corner - opposite side is brought back the same way. Exponent is effectively reversed in projection, and this way poles should be switched.
- Now how we can see how dimensionality first grows from zero to equator, then collapses to other pole (ball), corners of square where from center one makes sign-based 90-degree turn when going straight up, down, left or right from center, to reach the corners straight at every direction: otherwise, it reflects like light wave, meeting an array which meets it at edges of center 45-degrees rotated square but which are edges of 4-cut square centered at corners of big square, which has it's side centers at where the rotated square touches it.

Now: to interlace, does it mean to exponentially walk this exponent, and to raise precision as it's zoomed, which also changes the exponentiation: but also needs to be exactly how the ball's curvature, measured by pixel, would change on screen.
